Exercise 5
================

## Complex vs. Simple Contagion

In network science, we can find two types of contagion. Both types seek
to spread information or beliefs between individuals or networks, but
they do so differently. For the first type, simple, contagion,
individuals only need to have a connection with one individual affected
by the spread. We can use the example of the spread of COVID-19 to
illustrate this type. It creates a chain of contagion in which you only
need to be in contact with one affected person to catch the disease.
This kind of contagion can be very dangerous if the spread is malignant
because it does so very quickly.

For the second type, complex contagion, you need to have a number of
connections with affected individuals that surpasses a relative
percentage, the threshold. For example, before believing a rumour,
someone would have to hear it from two individuals and then, they could
pass it on.

## Complex Contagion in Organizations

If a manager wants to incite employees to adopt a certain behaviour to
conform to standards for example, they need to understand the logic
behind complex contagion. They cannot expect the whole network to change
their behaviours and beliefs having only one employee to change the
group. They need to make sure that the right people in each group will
be willing to influence the rest with good intentions. Also, they need
to make sure to have the perfect bonding social capital, as too many
connections can hurt complex contagion. This will ensure that the
behaviour is spreading to the group as a whole. Since in an
organization, it is possible to find small groups working in the same
environment, the manager needs the prefect bridging social capital so
the contagion can also happen from smaller groups to other smaller
groups.

Another concept that organizations need to understand is groupthink,
which means that groups are too close to think, so it is not possible to
influence them as they don’t want their ego to be challenged. To act on
this problem, it is important to make sure that groups are not over
connected and that there is a place for change coming from outside the
network.

## Threshold Models in Organizations

### Prosocial Behaviour in Organizations

Let’s take as an example a department where we can find three smaller
groups of employees working on similar assignments. If the manager of
this department is seeking to incorporate behaviours of collaboration
and mutual aid in his team, he needs to make sure that 25% of each
connection are affected by the change in behaviour for each employee to
modify the way they work. To do so, they must find the employee who is
more prone to reach almost everyone. Managers can therefore study how
employees interact to find which employee should initiate the change.

### Learning

For learning, we can follow the same principle as for prosocial
behaviours. However, managers also need to tackle the problem of
groupthink, since teaching new ways of working to over connected group
can be harder as they are not open to change their belief. As they are
too connected, they comfort their views and beliefs and it is hard to
penetrate such groups.

### Toxic or Unproductive Behaviours

To get rid of such behaviours, managers can rely on the same idea as for
good contagion. Indeed, they don’t need to tackle each individual to
minimize the spread, they only need to cut the right connections so the
relative percentage of infected people is not reached for most
employees. This will most likely stop the spread of such behaviours.
